{
  "title" : "Pulse - Are you Alive?", 
  "date" : "12/24/2013",
  "author" : "wlaurance"
}

How do you tell if a person is alive?

**Check the pulse.**

How do you tell if a software company is alive?

**Check the pulse.**

We know what an biological pulse is, but what does it mean for a non living thing to have a pulse?

###What is a company pulse?

A **company pulse** is a vein or channel someone can listen in on to easily see the progress of a company,
project or task.

The notion of a pulse implies that the channel is always sending message regardless if no one is listening.

In a healthy cardiovascular system, blood flows easily through arteries and veins. There is little resistance,
build up, or friction.

The same should be true in a software company's flow. The project management tool should automatically send
messages when someone starts, finishes, changes, or comments on task/ticket/story. The SCM host should send 
messages when anyone pushes commits to any branches, makes a pull request, merges on a pull request, etc etc!

###Where to check the pulse?

There should be a master aggregator for the message channel. Be it email, IRC, campfire, hipchat, some in
house chat server. Anything that can easily be a catch all funnel with an extremely low barrier of entry.

###What else should this aggregator hold?

The aggregator should most likely be a place where chat is occuring as well. If a PR is merged, the chat log will
reflect this, and someone can be like "fuck yeah, that feature is awesome!" or "wait, I thought we weren't dropping
this till next release". And the chat perhaps isn't even the right place to make these comments but at least employees
know that something actually dropped.

###Who can check the pulse?

Anyone in the organization should be able to check the pulse. However pulsi can be distributed to different focus
groups. Perhaps PR that are merged into master branches of company projects are pushed through the main channel.
Then people on the foobar team will get notified of additional PR's or commits on a feature branch etc.

Depending on the type of community the company works in, it might be cool to have a "public" pulse one that
everyone who is interested can see. This is exactly the right move for companies with "super fans" that are always
looking when the next feature or release is expected to drop.

###Pulse Modulation

Just a like biological pulse, company pulse rate must be kept in a healthy range. Obviously 0 means your dead. 200 means
you are going crazy and perhaps coked out. We want a happy medium for the company pulse. Pushing messages for every
commit in a large company will probably be too much. For a small dev shop, this might be perfect. Its all about judging
what is the optimal messages/minute that will be just right to be informative, but not overwhelming.
